# Machine Learning Projects
Projects from CSUF Machine Learning course.

Analysis of datasets using machine learning concepts in Python with Jupiter Notebook and a variety of Python statistical analysis tools, such as NumPy and Matplotlib.

## Project 1 - Outlier Analysis
This project contains 8 experiments where we analyze a given student attendance data file. This file contains student names along with the minutes they attended class for the first 5 weeks. Experiments 1 - 3 focus on reading the data into Python and then finding summary statistics, such as mean, median, and quartiles. Experiments 4 - 7 explore how we can use Tukey's Fences and standard deviations to find outliers in the data set. Experiment 8 compares our results using both methods and highlights the differences between these methods.

## Project 2 - Polynomial Regression
This project contains 12 experiements where we analyze a dataset generated by our professor. The purpose of the project is to use polynomial regression to train a model based on this dataset. The first 90% of the dataset is used to train the model while the last 10% is used to test it. Cross-validation is used to find an average training and validation mean-squared error. Our resulting data is then plotted on a series of different graphs for analysis.

## Project 3 - Classification
This project contains 15 experiments where we analyze a "Bank Marketing" dataset. The purpose of the project is to use a variety of classification algorithms to determine if a bank patron subscribed to a term deposit. The performance of the different classifiers is compared using the resulting classification data through scores, confusion matrices, and the area under the curve values computed with the confusion matrix.
